# hw2_jessmchang_joystick


Link to demo video: https://youtu.be/z--WeZ0n9oE

For my text entry device, I chose to create a circular device with a joystick made with rubber bands. There would be 6 switches around the circle, made with copper tape, each representing a group of letters. For example, the Northwest switch would represent “QWERT”. There would be a primary switch in the middle of the device which would serve as the letter selector once the group of letters has been selected. Because I only had one switch to select letters, I had to use that same switch to indicate spaces (a one second button hold would output a space). This was my first time playing around with copper tape and I wanted to challenge myself—it turned out to be a lot difficult than I thought because feedback from copper tape connections is not as strong as normal button switches.

Writing the software was challenging and unfortunately doesn’t work accurately at the moment. But the basic operation is that a user would choose a group of letters, say “QWERT”. Then the device would go into “letter mode“ where the East/west switches would act as left/right keys, and the user would browse through each letter and select it by pressing the middle switch. I ended up not having too much time to write software but it turns out that would be the most challenging part of this assignment because I had very minimal hardware/switches. I had to utilize the middle switch to not only select letters but also act as a “space”—a long button hold would generate a space. However I had some debouncing issues, so I wasn’t able to figure out how to time the button hold correctly…


Through this assignment I learned to manage my wires well by having a protoboard at the bottom of the device, and braiding all the wires coming out from it to the breadboard. Because of that I didn’t have any issues with hardware, and hardware works 100%. In the future, I’d want to look into soldering on headers so debugging would be a lot less time consuming. I’d also spend more time on software and not underestimate the different factors that come into play like debouncing issues. I felt like this assignment was on the hard side mainly because of the very limited time we had to work on it and limited access to laser cutters, etc.
